---
title: Privacy policy
date: 2024-01-25T14:00:00.000Z
authorbox: false
sidebar: false
menu: footer
weight: 2
---
<h1>Privacy Policy</h1>
<h2>1. An overview of data protection</h2>
<h3>General information</h3> <p>The following information will provide you with an easy to navigate overview of what will happen with your personal data when you visit this website. The term &ldquo;personal data&rdquo; comprises all data that can be used to personally identify you. For detailed information about the subject matter of data protection, please consult our Data Protection Declaration, which we have included beneath this copy.</p>
<h3>Data recording on this website</h3> <h4>Who is the responsible party for the recording of data on this website (i.e., the &ldquo;controller&rdquo;)?</h4> <p>The data on this website is processed by the operator of the website, whose contact information is available under section &ldquo;Information about the responsible party (referred to as the &ldquo;controller&rdquo; in the GDPR)&rdquo; in this Privacy Policy.</p> <h4>How do we record your data?</h4> <p>We collect your data as a result of your sharing of your data with us. This may, for instance be information you enter into our contact form.</p> <p>Other data shall be recorded by our IT systems automatically or after you consent to its recording during your website visit. This data comprises primarily technical information (e.g., web browser, operating system, or time the site was accessed). This information is recorded automatically when you access this website.</p> <h4>What are the purposes we use your data for?</h4> <p>A portion of the information is generated to guarantee the error free provision of the website. Other data may be used to analyze your user patterns. If contracts can be concluded or initiated via the website, the transmitted data will also be processed for contract offers, orders or other order enquiries.</p> <h4>What rights do you have as far as your information is concerned?</h4> <p>You have the right to receive information about the source, recipients, and purposes of your archived personal data at any time without having to pay a fee for such disclosures. You also have the right to demand that your data are rectified or eradicated. If you have consented to data processing, you have the option to revoke this consent at any time, which shall affect all future data processing. Moreover, you have the right to demand that the processing of your data be restricted under certain circumstances. Furthermore, you have the right to log a complaint with the competent supervising agency.</p> <p>Please do not hesitate to contact us at any time if you have questions about this or any other data protection related issues.</p>
<h3>Analysis tools and tools provided by third parties</h3> <p>There is a possibility that your browsing patterns will be statistically analyzed when your visit this website. Such analyses are performed primarily with what we refer to as analysis programs.</p> <p>For detailed information about these analysis programs please consult our Data Protection Declaration below.</p>
<h2>2. Hosting and Content Delivery Networks (CDN)</h2>
<p>We are hosting the content of our website at the following provider:</p>
<h3>External Hosting</h3> <p>This website is hosted externally. Personal data collected on this website are stored on the servers of the host. These may include, but are not limited to, IP addresses, contact requests, metadata and communications, contract information, contact information, names, web page access, and other data generated through a web site.</p> <p>The external hosting serves the purpose of fulfilling the contract with our potential and existing customers (Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR) and in the interest of secure, fast, and efficient provision of our online services by a professional provider (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR). If appropriate consent has been obtained, the processing is carried out exclusively on the basis of Art. 6 (1)(a) GDPR and &sect; 25 (1) TDDDG, insofar the consent includes the storage of cookies or the access to information in the user's end device (e.g., device fingerprinting) within the meaning of the TDDDG. This consent can be revoked at any time.</p> <p>Our host(s) will only process your data to the extent necessary to fulfil its performance obligations and to follow our instructions with respect to such data.</p> <p>We are using the following host(s):</p>
<p>Cloudflare Germany GmbH<br />
Rosental 7, c/o Mindspace, 80331 M&uuml;nchen</p>
<h4>Data processing</h4> <p>We have concluded a data processing agreement (DPA) for the use of the above-mentioned service. This is a contract mandated by data privacy laws that guarantees that they process personal data of our website visitors only based on our instructions and in compliance with the GDPR.</p>
<h3>Cloudflare</h3> <p>We use the &ldquo;Cloudflare&rdquo; service provided by Cloudflare Inc., 101 Townsend St., San Francisco, CA 94107, USA. (hereinafter referred to as &ldquo;Cloudflare&rdquo;).</p> <p>Cloudflare offers a content delivery network with DNS that is available worldwide. As a result, the information transfer that occurs between your browser and our website is technically routed via Cloudflare&rsquo;s network. This enables Cloudflare to analyze data transactions between your browser and our website and to work as a filter between our servers and potentially malicious data traffic from the Internet. In this context, Cloudflare may also use cookies or other technologies deployed to recognize Internet users, which shall, however, only be used for the herein described purpose.</p> <p>The use of Cloudflare is based on our legitimate interest in a provision of our website offerings that is as error free and secure as possible (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR).</p> <p>Data transmission to the US is based on the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCC) of the European Commission. Details and further information on security and data protection at Cloudflare can be found here: <a href="https://www.cloudflare.com/privacypolicy/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.cloudflare.com/privacypolicy/</a>.</p>
<p>The company is certified in accordance with the &ldquo;EU-US Data Privacy Framework&rdquo; (DPF). The DPF is an agreement between the European Union and the US, which is intended to ensure compliance with European data protection standards for data processing in the US. Every company certified under the DPF is obliged to comply with these data protection standards. For more information, please contact the provider under the following link: <a href="https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5666" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5666</a>.</p>
<h4>Data processing</h4> <p>We have concluded a data processing agreement (DPA) for the use of the above-mentioned service. This is a contract mandated by data privacy laws that guarantees that they process personal data of our website visitors only based on our instructions and in compliance with the GDPR.</p>
<h2>3. General information and mandatory information</h2>
<h3>Data protection</h3> <p>The operators of this website and its pages take the protection of your personal data very seriously. Hence, we handle your personal data as confidential information and in compliance with the statutory data protection regulations and this Data Protection Declaration.</p> <p>Whenever you use this website, a variety of personal information will be collected. Personal data comprises data that can be used to personally identify you. This Data Protection Declaration explains which data we collect as well as the purposes we use this data for. It also explains how, and for which purpose the information is collected.</p> <p>We herewith advise you that the transmission of data via the Internet (i.e., through e-mail communications) may be prone to security gaps. It is not possible to completely protect data against third-party access.</p>
<h3>Information about the responsible party (referred to as the &ldquo;controller&rdquo; in the GDPR)</h3> <p>The data processing controller on this website is:</p> <p>ELABIT GmbH<br />
Simon Meggle<br />
Wallbergstra&szlig;e 11<br />
D-86415 Mering</p>

<p>Phone: 004982332171680<br />
E-mail: mail@elabit.de</p>
 <p>The controller is the natural person or legal entity that single-handedly or jointly with others makes decisions as to the purposes of and resources for the processing of personal data (e.g., names, e-mail addresses, etc.).</p>

<h3>Storage duration</h3> <p>Unless a more specific storage period has been specified in this privacy policy, your personal data will remain with us until the purpose for which it was collected no longer applies. If you assert a justified request for deletion or revoke your consent to data processing, your data will be deleted, unless we have other legally permissible reasons for storing your personal data (e.g., tax or commercial law retention periods); in the latter case, the deletion will take place after these reasons cease to apply.</p>
<h3>General information on the legal basis for the data processing on this website</h3> <p>If you have consented to data processing, we process your personal data on the basis of Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR or Art. 9 (2)(a) GDPR, if special categories of data are processed according to Art. 9 (1) DSGVO. In the case of explicit consent to the transfer of personal data to third countries, the data processing is also based on Art. 49 (1)(a) GDPR. If you have consented to the storage of cookies or to the access to information in your end device (e.g., via device fingerprinting), the data processing is additionally based on &sect; 25 (1) TDDDG. The consent can be revoked at any time. If your data is required for the fulfillment of a contract or for the implementation of pre-contractual measures, we process your data on the basis of Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR. Furthermore, if your data is required for the fulfillment of a legal obligation, we process it on the basis of Art. 6(1)(c) GDPR. Furthermore, the data processing may be carried out on the basis of our legitimate interest according to Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR. Information on the relevant legal basis in each individual case is provided in the following paragraphs of this privacy policy.</p>
<h3>Recipients of personal data</h3> <p>In the scope of our business activities, we cooperate with various external parties. In some cases, this also requires the transfer of personal data to these external parties. We only disclose personal data to external parties if this is required as part of the fulfillment of a contract, if we are legally obligated to do so (e.g., disclosure of data to tax authorities), if we have a legitimate interest in the disclosure pursuant to Art. 6 (1)(f) GDPR, or if another legal basis permits the disclosure of this data. When using processors, we only disclose personal data of our customers on the basis of a valid contract on data processing. In the case of joint processing, a joint processing agreement is concluded.</p>
<h3>Revocation of your consent to the processing of data</h3> <p>A wide range of data processing transactions are possible only subject to your express consent. You can also revoke at any time any consent you have already given us. This shall be without prejudice to the lawfulness of any data collection that occurred prior to your revocation.</p>
<h3>Right to object to the collection of data in special cases; right to object to direct advertising (Art. 21 GDPR)</h3> <p>IN THE EVENT THAT DATA ARE PROCESSED ON THE BASIS OF ART. 6(1)(E) OR (F) GDPR, YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO AT ANY TIME OBJECT TO THE PROCESSING OF YOUR PERSONAL DATA BASED ON GROUNDS ARISING FROM YOUR UNIQUE SITUATION. THIS ALSO APPLIES TO ANY PROFILING BASED ON THESE PROVISIONS. TO DETERMINE THE LEGAL BASIS, ON WHICH ANY PROCESSING OF DATA IS BASED, PLEASE CONSULT THIS DATA PROTECTION DECLARATION. IF YOU LOG AN OBJECTION, WE WILL NO LONGER PROCESS YOUR AFFECTED PERSONAL DATA, UNLESS WE ARE IN A POSITION TO PRESENT COMPELLING PROTECTION WORTHY GROUNDS FOR THE PROCESSING OF YOUR DATA, THAT OUTWEIGH YOUR INTERESTS, RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS OR IF THE PURPOSE OF THE PROCESSING IS THE CLAIMING, EXERCISING OR DEFENCE OF LEGAL ENTITLEMENTS (OBJECTION PURSUANT TO ART. 21(1) GDPR).</p> <p>IF YOUR PERSONAL DATA IS BEING PROCESSED IN ORDER TO ENGAGE IN DIRECT ADVERTISING, YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO OBJECT TO THE PROCESSING OF YOUR AFFECTED PERSONAL DATA FOR THE PURPOSES OF SUCH ADVERTISING AT ANY TIME. THIS ALSO APPLIES TO PROFILING TO THE EXTENT THAT IT IS AFFILIATED WITH SUCH DIRECT ADVERTISING. IF YOU OBJECT, YOUR PERSONAL DATA WILL SUBSEQUENTLY NO LONGER BE USED FOR DIRECT ADVERTISING PURPOSES (OBJECTION PURSUANT TO ART. 21(2) GDPR).</p>
<h3>Right to log a complaint with the competent supervisory agency</h3> <p>In the event of violations of the GDPR, data subjects are entitled to log a complaint with a supervisory agency, in particular in the member state where they usually maintain their domicile, place of work or at the place where the alleged violation occurred. The right to log a complaint is in effect regardless of any other administrative or court proceedings available as legal recourses.</p>
<h3>Right to data portability</h3> <p>You have the right to have data that we process automatically on the basis of your consent or in fulfillment of a contract handed over to you or to a third party in a common, machine-readable format. If you should demand the direct transfer of the data to another controller, this will be done only if it is technically feasible.</p>
<h3>Information about, rectification and eradication of data</h3> <p>Within the scope of the applicable statutory provisions, you have the right to demand information about your archived personal data, their source and recipients as well as the purpose of the processing of your data at any time. You may also have a right to have your data rectified or eradicated. If you have questions about this subject matter or any other questions about personal data, please do not hesitate to contact us at any time.</p>
<h3>Right to demand processing restrictions</h3> <p>You have the right to demand the imposition of restrictions as far as the processing of your personal data is concerned. To do so, you may contact us at any time. The right to demand restriction of processing applies in the following cases:</p> <ul> <li>In the event that you should dispute the correctness of your data archived by us, we will usually need some time to verify this claim. During the time that this investigation is ongoing, you have the right to demand that we restrict the processing of your personal data.</li> <li>If the processing of your personal data was/is conducted in an unlawful manner, you have the option to demand the restriction of the processing of your data instead of demanding the eradication of this data.</li> <li>If we do not need your personal data any longer and you need it to exercise, defend or claim legal entitlements, you have the right to demand the restriction of the processing of your personal data instead of its eradication.</li> <li>If you have raised an objection pursuant to Art. 21(1) GDPR, your rights and our rights will have to be weighed against each other. As long as it has not been determined whose interests prevail, you have the right to demand a restriction of the processing of your personal data.</li> </ul> <p>If you have restricted the processing of your personal data, these data &ndash; with the exception of their archiving &ndash; may be processed only subject to your consent or to claim, exercise or defend legal entitlements or to protect the rights of other natural persons or legal entities or for important public interest reasons cited by the European Union or a member state of the EU.</p>
<h3>SSL and/or TLS encryption</h3> <p>For security reasons and to protect the transmission of confidential content, such as purchase orders or inquiries you submit to us as the website operator, this website uses either an SSL or a TLS encryption program. You can recognize an encrypted connection by checking whether the address line of the browser switches from &ldquo;http://&rdquo; to &ldquo;https://&rdquo; and also by the appearance of the lock icon in the browser line.</p> <p>If the SSL or TLS encryption is activated, data you transmit to us cannot be read by third parties.</p>
<h3>Encrypted payment transactions on this website</h3> <p>If you are under an obligation to share your payment information (e.g. account number if you give us the authority to debit your bank account) with us after you have entered into a fee-based contract with us, this information is required to process payments.</p> <p>Payment transactions using common modes of paying (Visa/MasterCard, debit to your bank account) are processed exclusively via encrypted SSL or TLS connections. You can recognize an encrypted connection by checking whether the address line of the browser switches from &ldquo;http://&rdquo; to &ldquo;https://&rdquo; and also by the appearance of the lock icon in the browser line.</p> <p>If the communication with us is encrypted, third parties will not be able to read the payment information you share with us.</p>
<h2>4. Recording of data on this website</h2>
<h3>Cookies</h3> <p>Our websites and pages use what the industry refers to as &ldquo;cookies.&rdquo; Cookies are small data packages that do not cause any damage to your device. They are either stored temporarily for the duration of a session (session cookies) or they are permanently archived on your device (permanent cookies). Session cookies are automatically deleted once you terminate your visit. Permanent cookies remain archived on your device until you actively delete them, or they are automatically eradicated by your web browser.</p> <p>Cookies can be issued by us (first-party cookies) or by third-party companies (so-called third-party cookies). Third-party cookies enable the integration of certain services of third-party companies into websites (e.g., cookies for handling payment services).</p> <p>Cookies have a variety of functions. Many cookies are technically essential since certain website functions would not work in the absence of these cookies (e.g., the shopping cart function or the display of videos). Other cookies may be used to analyze user behavior or for promotional purposes.</p> <p>Cookies, which are required for the performance of electronic communication transactions, for the provision of certain functions you want to use (e.g., for the shopping cart function) or those that are necessary for the optimization (required cookies) of the website (e.g., cookies that provide measurable insights into the web audience), shall be stored on the basis of Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR, unless a different legal basis is cited. The operator of the website has a legitimate interest in the storage of required cookies to ensure the technically error-free and optimized provision of the operator&rsquo;s services. If your consent to the storage of the cookies and similar recognition technologies has been requested, the processing occurs exclusively on the basis of the consent obtained (Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR and &sect; 25 (1) TDDDG); this consent may be revoked at any time.</p> <p>You have the option to set up your browser in such a manner that you will be notified any time cookies are placed and to permit the acceptance of cookies only in specific cases. You may also exclude the acceptance of cookies in certain cases or in general or activate the delete-function for the automatic eradication of cookies when the browser closes. If cookies are deactivated, the functions of this website may be limited.</p> <p>Which cookies and services are used on this website can be found in this privacy policy.</p>
<h3>Contact form</h3> <p>If you submit inquiries to us via our contact form, the information provided in the contact form as well as any contact information provided therein will be stored by us in order to handle your inquiry and in the event that we have further questions. We will not share this information without your consent.</p> <p>The processing of these data is based on Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR, if your request is related to the execution of a contract or if it is necessary to carry out pre-contractual measures. In all other cases the processing is based on our legitimate interest in the effective processing of the requests addressed to us (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR) or on your agreement (Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR) if this has been requested; the consent can be revoked at any time.</p> <p>The information you have entered into the contact form shall remain with us until you ask us to eradicate the data, revoke your consent to the archiving of data or if the purpose for which the information is being archived no longer exists (e.g., after we have concluded our response to your inquiry). This shall be without prejudice to any mandatory legal provisions, in particular retention periods.</p>
<h3>Request by e-mail, telephone, or fax</h3> <p>If you contact us by e-mail, telephone or fax, your request, including all resulting personal data (name, request) will be stored and processed by us for the purpose of processing your request. We do not pass these data on without your consent.</p> <p>These data are processed on the basis of Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR if your inquiry is related to the fulfillment of a contract or is required for the performance of pre-contractual measures. In all other cases, the data are processed on the basis of our legitimate interest in the effective handling of inquiries submitted to us (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR) or on the basis of your consent (Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR) if it has been obtained; the consent can be revoked at any time.</p> <p>The data sent by you to us via contact requests remain with us until you request us to delete, revoke your consent to the storage or the purpose for the data storage lapses (e.g. after completion of your request). Mandatory statutory provisions - in particular statutory retention periods - remain unaffected.</p>
<h3>Appointment booking via Brevo</h3> <p>You can make appointments with us on our website. We use the &ldquo;Brevo&rdquo; tool to book appointments. The provider is Sendinblue GmbH, K&ouml;penicker Stra&szlig;e 126, 10179 Berlin, Germany. (hereinafter referred to as &ldquo;Brevo&rdquo;).</p> <p>For the purpose of booking an appointment, you enter the requested data and the desired date in the mask provided for this purpose. The data entered will be used for the planning, execution and, if necessary, follow-up of the appointment. The appointment data is stored for us on the servers of Brevo, whose privacy policy you can view here: <a href="https://www.brevo.com/de/legal/privacypolicy/." target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.brevo.com/de/legal/privacypolicy/.</a></p> <p>The data you enter will remain with us until you ask us to delete it, revoke your consent to storage or the purpose for data storage no longer applies. Mandatory statutory provisions - in particular retention periods - remain unaffected.</p> <p>The legal basis for data processing is Art. 6 (1)(f) GDPR. The website operator has a legitimate interest in making appointments with interested parties and customers as uncomplicated as possible. If a corresponding consent has been requested, the processing is carried out exclusively on the basis of Art. 6 (1)(a) GDPR and &sect; 25 (1) TDDDG, insofar as the consent includes the storage of cookies or access to information in the user's terminal device (e.g. device fingerprinting) within the meaning of the TDDDG. Consent can be revoked at any time.</p>
<h4>Data processing</h4> <p>We have concluded a data processing agreement (DPA) for the use of the above-mentioned service. This is a contract mandated by data privacy laws that guarantees that they process personal data of our website visitors only based on our instructions and in compliance with the GDPR.</p>
<h3>Registration on this website</h3> <p>You have the option to register on this website to be able to use additional website functions. We shall use the data you enter only for the purpose of using the respective offer or service you have registered for. The required information we request at the time of registration must be entered in full. Otherwise, we shall reject the registration.</p> <p>To notify you of any important changes to the scope of our portfolio or in the event of technical modifications, we shall use the e-mail address provided during the registration process.</p> <p>The data entered during registration is processed for the purpose of implementing the user relationship established by the registration and, if necessary, for the initiation of further contracts (Art. 6 (1)(b) GDPR).</p> <p>The data recorded during the registration process shall be stored by us as long as you are registered on this website. Subsequently, such data shall be deleted. This shall be without prejudice to mandatory statutory retention obligations.</p>
<h2>5. Analysis tools and advertising</h2>
<h3>Google Tag Manager</h3> <p>We use the Google Tag Manager. The provider is Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland</p> <p>The Google Tag Manager is a tool that allows us to integrate tracking or statistical tools and other technologies on our website. The Google Tag Manager itself does not create any user profiles, does not store cookies, and does not carry out any independent analyses. It only manages and runs the tools integrated via it. However, the Google Tag Manager does collect your IP address, which may also be transferred to Google&rsquo;s parent company in the United States.</p> <p>The Google Tag Manager is used on the basis of Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR. The website operator has a legitimate interest in the quick and uncomplicated integration and administration of various tools on his website. If appropriate consent has been obtained, the processing is carried out exclusively on the basis of Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR and &sect; 25 (1) TDDDG, insofar the consent includes the storage of cookies or the access to information in the user&rsquo;s end device (e.g., device fingerprinting) within the meaning of the TDDDG. This consent can be revoked at any time.</p>
<p>The company is certified in accordance with the &ldquo;EU-US Data Privacy Framework&rdquo; (DPF). The DPF is an agreement between the European Union and the US, which is intended to ensure compliance with European data protection standards for data processing in the US. Every company certified under the DPF is obliged to comply with these data protection standards. For more information, please contact the provider under the following link: <a href="https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5780" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5780</a>.</p>
<h3>Google Analytics</h3> <p>This website uses functions of the web analysis service Google Analytics. The provider of this service is Google Ireland Limited (&ldquo;Google&rdquo;), Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland.</p> <p>Google Analytics enables the website operator to analyze the behavior patterns of website visitors. To that end, the website operator receives a variety of user data, such as pages accessed, time spent on the page, the utilized operating system and the user&rsquo;s origin. This data is summarized in a user-ID and assigned to the respective end device of the website visitor.</p> <p>Furthermore, Google Analytics allows us to record your mouse and scroll movements and clicks, among other things. Google Analytics uses various modeling approaches to augment the collected data sets and uses machine learning technologies in data analysis.</p>
 <p>Google Analytics uses technologies that make the recognition of the user for the purpose of analyzing the user behavior patterns (e.g., cookies or device fingerprinting). The website use information recorded by Google is, as a rule transferred to a Google server in the United States, where it is stored.</p> <p>The use of these services occurs on the basis of your consent pursuant to Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR and &sect; 25(1) TDDDG. You may revoke your consent at any time.</p> <p>Data transmission to the US is based on the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCC) of the European Commission. Details can be found here: <a href="https://business.safety.google/adscontrollerterms/sccs/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://business.safety.google/adscontrollerterms/sccs/</a>.</p> <p>The company is certified in accordance with the &ldquo;EU-US Data Privacy Framework&rdquo; (DPF). The DPF is an agreement between the European Union and the US, which is intended to ensure compliance with European data protection standards for data processing in the US. Every company certified under the DPF is obliged to comply with these data protection standards. For more information, please contact the provider under the following link: <a href="https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5780" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5780</a>.</p>
<h4>IP anonymization</h4> <p>Google Analytics IP anonymization is active. As a result, your IP address will be abbreviated by Google within the member states of the European Union or in other states that have ratified the Convention on the European Economic Area prior to its transmission to the United States. The full IP address will be transmitted to one of Google&rsquo;s servers in the United States and abbreviated there only in exceptional cases. On behalf of the operator of this website, Google shall use this information to analyze your use of this website to generate reports on website activities and to render other services to the operator of this website that are related to the use of the website and the Internet. The IP address transmitted in conjunction with Google Analytics from your browser shall not be merged with other data in Google&rsquo;s possession.</p>
 <h4>Browser plug-in</h4> <p>You can prevent the recording and processing of your data by Google by downloading and installing the browser plugin available under the following link: <a href="https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en</a>.</p> <p>For more information about the handling of user data by Google Analytics, please consult Google&rsquo;s Data Privacy Declaration at: <a href="https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245?hl=en" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245?hl=en</a>.</p><h4>Google Signals</h4> <p>We use Google Signals. Whenever you visit our website, Google Analytics records, among other things, your location, the progression of your search and YouTube progression as well as demographic data (site visitor data). This data may be used for customized advertising with the assistance of Google Signal. If you have a Google account, your site visitor information will be linked to your Google account by Google Signal and used to send you customized promotional messages. The data is also used to compile anonymized statistics of our users&rsquo; online patterns.</p>
<h4>Contract data processing</h4> <p>We have executed a contract data processing agreement with Google and are implementing the stringent provisions of the German data protection agencies to the fullest when using Google Analytics.</p>
<h4>Google Analytics E-Commerce-Tracking</h4> <p>This website uses the &ldquo;E-Commerce Tracking&rdquo; function of Google Analytics. With the assistance of E-Commerce Tracking, the website operator is in a position to analyze the purchasing patterns of website visitors with the aim of improving the operator&rsquo;s online marketing campaigns. In this context, information, such as the orders placed, the average order values, shipping costs and the time from viewing the product to making the purchasing decision are tracked. These data may be consolidated by Google under a transaction ID, which is allocated to the respective user or the user&rsquo;s device.</p>
<h3>VG Wort Z&auml;hlpixel</h3> <p>We have implemented texts on our website, in which a so-called tracking pixel (METIS tracking pixel) is embedded. The provider is the Verwertungsgesellschaft WORT - VG WORT (association with legal capacity by virtue of conferral), Untere Weidenstra&szlig;e 5, 81543 Munich (hereinafter &ldquo;VG Wort&rdquo;).</p> <p>The pixel counts the views of texts, forwards them anonymously to the VG Wort, in order to determine the distributions for the authors. The use of the VG Wort pixel is based on our legitimate interest in receiving remuneration for the texts published on our website for our authors or for ourselves (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR). Conflicting interests of website visitors are not apparent, as the data is transmitted to VG Wort in anonymized form.</p>

<h2>6. Newsletter</h2>
<h3>Newsletter data</h3> <p>If you would like to receive the newsletter offered on the website, we require an e-mail address from you as well as information that allows us to verify that you are the owner of the e-mail address provided and that you agree to receive the newsletter. Further data is not collected or only on a voluntary basis. For the handling of the newsletter, we use newsletter service providers, which are described below.</p>
<h3>GetResponse</h3> <p>This website uses GetResponse for the sending of newsletters. The provider is the GetResponse Sp. z o.o., which maintains its registered business domicile in Gdansk, Poland ul. Arkonska 6, A3, 80-387 Gdansk, Poland, website: <a href="https://www.getresponse.de" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.getresponse.de</a> (hereinafter referred to as &ldquo;GetResponse&rdquo;).</p> <p>GetResponse services can, among other things, be used to organize and analyze the sending of newsletters. The data you enter for the purpose of subscribing to the newsletter are archived on GetResponse&rsquo;s servers. GetResponse uses servers in the US, so your newsletter data may be transferred to the US. The US is considered a non-secure third country under data protection law.</p> <h4>Data analysis by GetResponse</h4> <p>Sending newsletters with GetResponse enables us to analyze the user patterns of our newsletter subscribers. Among other things, we can analyze how many recipients have opened their newsletter messages and how often they have clicked which link. With the assistance of a tool called Conversion Tracking, it is also possible to determine whether, after clicking on a link in a newsletter, the subscriber carries out a predefined action (e.g., purchase of a product, sharing of information on social networks, cancellation of the subscription). Moreover, we can also track when a newsletter message was opened. This allows us to deliver newsletter e-mails at times the newsletter subscriber is likely going to be the most active. We can even take the time zone the subscriber lives in into account. GetResponse also offers us the option to divide newsletter recipients into groups based on their interests. This allows us to send our newsletter subscribers content that is the most compatible with their respective interests.</p> <p>For more information about GetResponse&rsquo;s features and services, please visit: <a href="https://www.getresponse.de/email-marketing/funktionen/e-mail-marketing" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.getresponse.de/email-marketing/funktionen/e-mail-marketing</a>.</p> <h4>Legal basis</h4> <p>The data is processed based on your consent (Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR). You may revoke any consent you have given at any time by unsubscribing from the newsletter. This shall be without prejudice to the lawfulness of any data processing transactions that have taken place prior to your revocation.</p> <p>Data transmission to the US is based on the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCC) of the European Commission. Details can be found here: <a href="https://www.getresponse.com/de/legal/standard-contractual-clauses" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.getresponse.com/de/legal/standard-contractual-clauses</a>.</p> <h4>Storage period</h4> <p>The data deposited with us for the purpose of subscribing to the newsletter will be stored by us until you unsubscribe from the newsletter or the newsletter service provider and deleted from the newsletter distribution list after you unsubscribe from the newsletter. Data stored for other purposes with us remain unaffected.</p> <p>After you unsubscribe from the newsletter distribution list, your e-mail address may be stored by us or the newsletter service provider in a blacklist, if such action is necessary to prevent future mailings. The data from the blacklist is used only for this purpose and not merged with other data. This serves both your interest and our interest in complying with the legal requirements when sending newsletters (legitimate interest within the meaning of Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR). The storage in the blacklist is indefinite. <strong>You may object to the storage if your interests outweigh our legitimate interest.</strong></p> <p>For more details, please consult the Data Protection Regulations of GetResponse at: <a href="https://www.getresponse.de/email-marketing/legal/datenschutz.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.getresponse.de/email-marketing/legal/datenschutz.html</a>.</p>
<p>The company is certified in accordance with the &ldquo;EU-US Data Privacy Framework&rdquo; (DPF). The DPF is an agreement between the European Union and the US, which is intended to ensure compliance with European data protection standards for data processing in the US. Every company certified under the DPF is obliged to comply with these data protection standards. For more information, please contact the provider under the following link: <a href="https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/4993" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/4993</a>.</p>
<h4>Data processing</h4> <p>We have concluded a data processing agreement (DPA) for the use of the above-mentioned service. This is a contract mandated by data privacy laws that guarantees that they process personal data of our website visitors only based on our instructions and in compliance with the GDPR.</p>
<h2>7. Plug-ins and Tools</h2>
<h3>Cloudflare Turnstile</h3> <p>We use &ldquo;Cloudflare Turnstile&rdquo; on this website. The provider is Cloudflare Inc., 101 Townsend St., San Francisco, CA 94107, USA (hereinafter &ldquo;Turnstile&rdquo;).</p> <p>Turnstile is used to check whether the data input on this website (e.g., in a contact form) is done by a human or by an automated program. For this purpose, Turnstile analyzes the behavior of the website visitor based on a number of characteristics.</p> <p>This analysis starts automatically as soon as the website visitor enters a website that uses Turnstile. For the analysis, Turnstile evaluates various information (e.g., IP address, time spent on the website or mouse movements made by the user). The data collected during the analysis is forwarded to Cloudflare.</p> <p>The storage and analysis of the data is based on Art. 6 (1)(f) GDPR. The website operator has a legitimate interest in protecting his web offerings from abusive automated spying and from Spam. If such consent has been obtained, the data will be processed exclusively on the basis of Art. 6 (1)(a) GDPR and &sect; 25 (1) TDDDG, if the consent comprises the storage of cookies or access to information on the user&rsquo;s device (e.g., device fingerprinting) as defined in the TDDDG (German Telecommunications Act). Such consent may be revoked at any time.</p> <p>The processing of data is based on Standard Contract Clauses, which you can find here: <a href="https://www.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-customer-scc/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-customer-scc/</a>.</p> <p>For more information on Cloudflare Turnstile, please visit the privacy policy at: <a href="https://www.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-customer-dpa/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-customer-dpa/</a>.</p>
<p>The company is certified in accordance with the &ldquo;EU-US Data Privacy Framework&rdquo; (DPF). The DPF is an agreement between the European Union and the US, which is intended to ensure compliance with European data protection standards for data processing in the US. Every company certified under the DPF is obliged to comply with these data protection standards. For more information, please contact the provider under the following link: <a href="https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5666" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/participant/5666</a>.</p>
<h2>8. eCommerce and payment service providers</h2>
<h3>Processing of Customer and Contract Data</h3> <p>We collect, process, and use personal customer and contract data for the establishment, content arrangement and modification of our contractual relationships. Data with personal references to the use of this website (usage data) will be collected, processed, and used only if this is necessary to enable the user to use our services or required for billing purposes. The legal basis for these processes is Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR.</p> <p>The collected customer data shall be deleted upon completion of the order or termination of the business relationship and upon expiration of any existing statutory archiving periods. This shall be without prejudice to any statutory archiving periods.</p>
<h3>Data transfer upon closing of contracts for online stores, retailers, and the shipment of merchandise</h3> <p>Whenever you order merchandise from us, we will share your personal data with the transportation company entrusted with the delivery as well as the payment service commissioned to handle the payment transactions. Only the data these respective service providers require to meet their obligations will be shared. The legal basis for this sharing is Art. 6 (1)(b) GDPR, which permits the processing of data for the fulfillment of contractual or pre-contractual obligations. If you give us your respective consent pursuant to Art. 6 (1)(a) GDPR, we will share your email address with the transportation company entrusted with the delivery so that this company can notify you on the shipping status for your order via email. You have the option to revoke your consent at any time.</p>
<h3>Data transfer upon closing of contracts for services and digital content</h3> <p>We share personal data with third parties only if this is necessary in conjunction with the handling of the contract; for instance, with the financial institution tasked with the processing of payments.</p> <p>Any further transfer of data shall not occur or shall only occur if you have expressly consented to the transfer. Any sharing of your data with third parties in the absence of your express consent, for instance for advertising purposes, shall not occur.</p> <p>The basis for the processing of data is Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR, which permits the processing of data for the fulfilment of a contract or for pre-contractual actions.</p>
<h3>Payment services</h3> <p>We integrate payment services of third-party companies on our website. When you make a purchase from us, your payment data (e.g. name, payment amount, bank account details, credit card number) are processed by the payment service provider for the purpose of payment processing. For these transactions, the respective contractual and data protection provisions of the respective providers apply. The use of the payment service providers is based on Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (contract processing) and in the interest of a smooth, convenient, and secure payment transaction (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR). Insofar as your consent is requested for certain actions, Art. 6(1)(a) GDPR is the legal basis for data processing; consent may be revoked at any time for the future.</p><p>We use the following payment services / payment service providers within the scope of this website:</p>
<h4>PayPal</h4> <p>The provider of this payment service is PayPal (Europe) S.&agrave;.r.l. et Cie, S.C.A., 22-24 Boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg (hereinafter &ldquo;PayPal&rdquo;).</p> <p>Data transmission to the US is based on the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCC) of the European Commission. Details can be found here: <a href="https://www.paypal.com/de/webapps/mpp/ua/pocpsa-full" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.paypal.com/de/webapps/mpp/ua/pocpsa-full</a>.</p> <p>Details can be found in PayPal&rsquo;s privacy policy: <a href="https://www.paypal.com/de/webapps/mpp/ua/privacy-full" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.paypal.com/de/webapps/mpp/ua/privacy-full</a>.</p>
<h4>Apple Pay</h4> <p>The payment service provider is Apple Inc, Infinite Loop, Cupertino, CA 95014, USA. The Apple privacy policy can be found at: <a href="https://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/de-ww/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/de-ww/</a>.</p>
<h4>Google Pay</h4> <p>The provider is Google Ireland Limited, Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland. You can find Google&rsquo;s privacy policy here: <a href="https://policies.google.com/privacy" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://policies.google.com/privacy</a>.</p>
<h4>Stripe</h4> <p>The provider for customers within the EU is Stripe Payments Europe, Ltd,1 Grand Canal Street Lower, Grand Canal Dock, Dublin, Ireland (hereinafter &ldquo;Stripe&rdquo;).</p> <p>Data transmission to the US is based on the Standard Contractual Clauses (SCC) of the European Commission. Details can be found here: <a href="https://stripe.com/de/privacy" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://stripe.com/de/privacy</a> and <a href="https://stripe.com/de/guides/general-data-protection-regulation" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://stripe.com/de/guides/general-data-protection-regulation</a>.</p> <p>Details can be found in Stripe&rsquo;s Privacy Policy at the following link: <a href="https://stripe.com/de/privacy" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://stripe.com/de/privacy</a>.</p>
<h4>Klarna</h4> <p>The supplier is Klarna AB, Sveav&auml;gen 46, 111 34 Stockholm, Sweden (hereinafter &ldquo;Klarna&ldquo;). Klarna offers various payment options (e.g., hire purchase). If you choose to pay with Klarna (Klarna checkout solution), Klarna will collect various personal data from you. Klarna uses cookies to optimize the use of Klarna checkout solution. For details on the use of Klarna cookies, please see the following link: <a href="https://cdn.klarna.com/1.0/shared/content/policy/cookie/de_de/checkout.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://cdn.klarna.com/1.0/shared/content/policy/cookie/de_de/checkout.pdf</a>.</p> <p>Details can be found in Klarna&rsquo;s privacy policy under the following link: <a href="https://www.klarna.com/de/datenschutz/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.klarna.com/de/datenschutz/</a>.</p>
<h4>Amazon Pay</h4> <p>The provider of this payment service is Amazon Payments Europe S.C.A., 38 avenue J.F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg.</p> <p>Details regarding the use of your data can be found in Amazon Pay&rsquo;s Privacy Policy at the following link: <a href="https://pay.amazon.de/help/201212490?ld=APDELPADirect" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://pay.amazon.de/help/201212490?ld=APDELPADirect</a>.</p>
<h4>American Express</h4> <p>The provider of this payment service is the American Express Europe S.A., Theodor-Heuss-Allee 112, 60486 Frankfurt am Main, Germany (hereinafter &ldquo;American Express&rdquo;).</p> <p>American Express may transfer data to its parent company in the US. The data transfer to the US is based on the Binding Corporate Rules. Details can be found here: <a href="https://www.americanexpress.com/en-cz/company/legal/privacy-centre/binding-corporate-rules/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.americanexpress.com/en-cz/company/legal/privacy-centre/binding-corporate-rules/</a>.</p> <p>For more information, please see the American Express privacy policy: <a href="https://www.americanexpress.com/de-de/firma/legal/datenschutz-center/online-datenschutzerklarung/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.americanexpress.com/de-de/firma/legal/datenschutz-center/online-datenschutzerklarung/</a>.</p>
<h4>Mastercard</h4> <p>The provider of this payment service is the Mastercard Europe SA, Chauss&eacute;e de Tervuren 198A, B-1410 Waterloo, Belgium (hereinafter &ldquo;Mastercard&rdquo;).</p> <p>Mastercard may transfer data to its parent company in the US. The data transfer to the US is based on Mastercard's Binding Corporate Rules. Details can be found here: <a href="https://www.mastercard.de/de-de/datenschutz.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.mastercard.de/de-de/datenschutz.html</a> and <a href="https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/mccom/global/documents/mastercard-bcrs.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/mccom/global/documents/mastercard-bcrs.pdf</a>.</p>
<h4>VISA</h4> <p>The provider of this payment service is the Visa Europe Services Inc, London Branch, 1 Sheldon Square, London W2 6TT, United Kingdom (hereinafter &ldquo;VISA&rdquo;).</p> <p>Great Britain is considered a secure non-EU country as far as data protection legislation is concerned. This means that the data protection level in Great Britain is equivalent to the data protection level of the European Union.</p> <p>VISA may transfer data to its parent company in the US. The data transfer to the US is based on the standard contractual clauses of the EU Commission. Details can be found here: <a href="https://www.visa.de/nutzungsbedingungen/visa-globale-datenschutzmitteilung/mitteilung-zu-zustandigkeitsfragen-fur-den-ewr.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.visa.de/nutzungsbedingungen/visa-globale-datenschutzmitteilung/mitteilung-zu-zustandigkeitsfragen-fur-den-ewr.html</a>.</p> <p>For more information, please refer to VISA&rsquo;s privacy policy: <a href="https://www.visa.de/nutzungsbedingungen/visa-privacy-center.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://www.visa.de/nutzungsbedingungen/visa-privacy-center.html</a>.</p>
<h2>9. Online-based Audio and Video Conferences (Conference tools)</h2>
<h3>Data processing</h3> <p>We use online conference tools, among other things, for communication with our customers. The tools we use are listed in detail below. If you communicate with us by video or audio conference using the Internet, your personal data will be collected and processed by the provider of the respective conference tool and by us. The conferencing tools collect all information that you provide/access to use the tools (email address and/or your phone number). Furthermore, the conference tools process the duration of the conference, start and end (time) of participation in the conference, number of participants and other &ldquo;context information&rdquo; related to the communication process (metadata).</p> <p>Furthermore, the provider of the tool processes all the technical data required for the processing of the online communication. This includes, in particular, IP addresses, MAC addresses, device IDs, device type, operating system type and version, client version, camera type, microphone or loudspeaker and the type of connection.</p> <p>Should content be exchanged, uploaded, or otherwise made available within the tool, it is also stored on the servers of the tool provider. Such content includes, but is not limited to, cloud recordings, chat/ instant messages, voicemail uploaded photos and videos, files, whiteboards, and other information shared while using the service.</p> <p>Please note that we do not have complete influence on the data processing procedures of the tools used. Our possibilities are largely determined by the corporate policy of the respective provider. Further information on data processing by the conference tools can be found in the data protection declarations of the tools used, and which we have listed below this text.</p> <h3>Purpose and legal bases</h3> <p>The conference tools are used to communicate with prospective or existing contractual partners or to offer certain services to our customers (Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR). Furthermore, the use of the tools serves to generally simplify and accelerate communication with us or our company (legitimate interest in the meaning of Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR). Insofar as consent has been requested, the tools in question will be used on the basis of this consent; the consent may be revoked at any time with effect from that date.</p> <h3>Duration of storage</h3> <p>Data collected directly by us via the video and conference tools will be deleted from our systems immediately after you request us to delete it, revoke your consent to storage, or the reason for storing the data no longer applies. Stored cookies remain on your end device until you delete them. Mandatory legal retention periods remain unaffected.</p> <p>We have no influence on the duration of storage of your data that is stored by the operators of the conference tools for their own purposes. For details, please directly contact the operators of the conference tools.</p> <h3>Conference tools used</h3> <p>We employ the following conference tools:</p>
<h4>BigBlueButton</h4>
<p>We are using BigBlueButton. When you communicate with us via BigBlueButton, all the data related to this communication activity will be processed exclusively on servers located in the European Union or in a third country deemed secure in terms of data protection laws.</p>
<h5>Data processing</h5> <p>We have concluded a data processing agreement (DPA) for the use of the above-mentioned service. This is a contract mandated by data privacy laws that guarantees that they process personal data of our website visitors only based on our instructions and in compliance with the GDPR.</p>

<h4>Thrivecart</h4>
<p>We use the service provider ThriveCart, operated by WebActix Ltd., based in New Zealand, to process orders and payments. ThriveCart processes personal data (name, email address, payment details) on servers in the United States. This data is transferred on the basis of standard contractual clauses of the EU to ensure an adequate level of data protection. Further information on data processing by ThriveCart can be found in their privacy policy: https://thrivecart.com/legal/thrivecart/#Privacy_Policy</p>
